[opening theme music playing]
[Alison] Now, it's Patisserie Week.
-[Josh] So much going on.
-Oh, my days.
[Alison] As our semi-finalists face
a fancy French signature.
Has to look like it's from
a Parisian shop, which isn't easy.
[Tasha] Oh, it's so curdled.
Certainly not for me. [laughs]
[Alison] Elevate the humble apple tart
in the technical…
Oh, God. I can't watch.
…and create
stunning puff pastry showstoppers.
-Coming out.
-[Alison] Who will rise to the occasion?
I'm really, really pleased.
Just get Paul in now.
[Alison] And who will fold
under the pressure?
Oh, my God. [sighs]
This is the first time
I might not actually finish a challenge.
Oh, man.
Just wanna go to the pub.
[Noel] Just three patisserie challenges
stand between our four remaining bakers
and a place in the final.
[Dan] I'm absolutely
over the moon to be here.
Worst-case scenario,
you've made it to the semi-finals.
Best-case, I go to the finals.
All the best, dudes. Let's do it today.
Boom!
[Tasha] I'm so proud of how far I've come.
The confidence it's given me,
to believe in myself
in such a short space of time
is, yeah, it's amazing.
[Josh] The nerves are really big.
I never in a million years
would've imagined I could get this far.
So a place in the final would be amazing.
[Matty] Week nine, it's so bizarre.
I'm looking around
at the other three and I'm thinking,
"What am I doing here?" [laughs]
I've not labelled it semi-final,
I've just thought about what I need to do.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent.
Unfortunately, today,
Alison's a little bit poorly
and she won't be joining us,
but she'll be back soon.
Now, the good news
is you've all made it to the semi-final.
The bad news is
it's Patisserie Week. [laughs]
Now, the judges would love you to make
two batches of 12 financiers.
Your financiers should be worthy
of a Parisian patisserie window,
and they can be any flavour you like.
You have two hours
to complete this challenge.
On your marks, get set, bake.
It is very quiet in the tent.
Everyone's got game faces on.
Everyone's very serious.
Time is so important this week.
I need it to make it look decent.
[sighs] Patisserie,
patisserie, patisserie.
I'm ready. I'm ready for the challenge.
Our signature bake is a financier.
A classic financier
is a little sponge cake
that looks like a little gold bar.
They always have ground nuts in there,
usually ground almonds,
and they usually have brown butter.
And brown butter
is just butter that is heated
until it's on the point of burning.
[Dan] Burn, my beauty, burn.
It gives the sponge a really nutty,
very rich flavour.
Financiers should be quite moist inside,
but light at the same time.
It's quite tricky
to get them absolutely spot on.
We're asking them to
highly decorate their financiers.
Normally, it's just a sponge.
But we want them
to take the financier to another level.
It's a semi-final,
we're looking for perfection,
elegance, and beautiful flavours.
[bird screeches]
Hello, Dan.
-Hello.
-Good morning.
So, Dan,
tell us all about your financiers.
So, for my first batch, I am doing
pistachio with matcha and pink peppercorn.
Matcha?
There's only one teaspoon
of matcha going in it.
Okay. Why are you putting it in at all?
Because it lends flavour
to the pistachio--
Paul absolutely loves matcha.
-Oh, do ya?
-No.
[Alison] Dan's financiers, delicately
flavoured with matcha green tea powder,
will be decorated with yuzu gel
and tonka bean mousse.
He'll serve these
alongside orange and vanilla financiers,
topped with macerated peach
and fresh raspberries.
-Hello, matcha boy.
-Hello, matcha…
-You wore a matcha t-shirt? [laughs]
-Yeah, I have actually. Yeah.
Paul looked enthusiastic about this one.
Will he ever admit
that he likes something if it's matcha?
Today might be the day.
-[laughs]
-Yeah, you never know, do you?
Not only are you trying to win this,
but trying to break Paul Hollywood.
Yes, well, he's done a good job of
breaking me, so I'm trying to fight back.
[Noel] Whilst Dan gambles with matcha…
Looks like something out
of a horror movie. [growls]
…Josh is sticking
to some classic flavours.
They're inspired by puddings, so one
of them's gonna be Bakewell flavoured.
Got ground almonds in the batter,
almond extract,
and the other one is gonna be,
erm, chocolate, hazelnut and orange.
[Prue] Delicious.
-How many Star Bakers have you had, Josh?
-One.
So, today is your day
to catch up with the others.
-They've all had two.
-Possibly.
[Alison] In a bid to even the score,
Josh will embellish
his Bakewell-inspired financiers
with a vanilla custard buttercream,
fresh raspberries and flaked almonds.
Whilst his chocolate and orange offering
will be topped
with rich chocolate buttercream
and a wafer-thin chocolate shard.
-Semi-final.
-It is, yeah.
[Noel] Would you have
taken semis at the beginning?
-Definitely.
-[Noel] Would you?
-I'd have taken week two.
-[both laugh]
Week two?
You were never a week-two person.
I just wanted to get through one week.
We'll see what happens.
You're quietly confident, though, right?
Erm… just quiet.
[both chuckle]
[Tasha] This is for my
hazelnut coffee financiers.
Oh, Tasha's doing coffee.
Bloody hell. That's not what you need.
So, we've gone for a coffee-flavoured one.
Almost like a tiramisu.
And then mango, lime and coconut.
There's a big emphasis
not just on flavour this week,
it has to look like it's from
a Parisian shop, which isn't easy.
Certainly not for me. [laughs]
[Alison] Running through the centre
of Matty's coffee-flavoured financiers
is a generous channel of chocolate ganache
topped with vanilla mascarpone cream.
He'll contrast these rich flavours
with mango, lime and coconut financiers
decorated with mango purée
and a white chocolate coconut ganache.
-Oh, wow.
-I think those are two great flavours.
Yeah. And Star Baker as well, eh, Matty?
-Yeah.
-So you're brimming with confidence.
Yeah, it was a nice confidence booster,
in, kind of, preparation for this week.
You've got two contrasting flavours here,
which sound good
-if you get it spot on and baked well.
-Exactly.
And neat, piped, and decorated.
I know what I'm doing,
and it's written down, as is my schedule.
As your famous plan.
-[Paul] You got your schedule?
-Always, now.
-[Prue] Always got a plan.
-[Paul laughs]
Looking forward to it, good luck.
Cheers, thank you.
[Noel] While Matty hopes to replicate
last week's win…
Full-on. Feel like I'm a kid at school.
…Tasha's looking to bounce back.
I am trying to redeem myself
from last week's Viennese whirl disaster.
Tsk. 'Cause the flavours were good,
textures and presentation
left something to be desired.
So, I'm making raspberry
and pistachio financiers.
[Noel] Tasha's redemptive financiers
will see her pistachio sponges
decorated with raspberry Swiss meringue
buttercream and fresh raspberries.
While hazelnut and coffee financiers
topped with coffee, chocolate ganache
and caramelised hazelnuts
complete her opening bid
for a place in the final.
How far have you got?
Batter's chilling in the fridge,
and my piping bags,
and I'm going to pipe it into my tins,
-pop it in the oven in 10 minutes.
-Perfect.
I love these moulds.
They look like miniature coffins.
-The sort of thing Noel would lie in.
-[all laugh]
Right, what am I doing now?
[Tasha] I'm about to start piping
the financiers.
[Alison] These bite-sized cakes
are traditionally baked
in small rectangular moulds.
[Dan] So, we have in here,
orange financier.
[Alison] The shallow depth
allows the batter to bake perfectly
in a matter of minutes.
You need to get them even.
If there's different quantities in,
they'll look different.
I'm just gonna put some fresh raspberries
on top of the, er, almond one.
[Alison] Having chosen deeper moulds,
Josh and Matty must take care
not to underbake their financiers.
[whispers] I feel like
everyone's quiet in here.
-It's eerie a bit.
-Yeah, a little bit.
[Matty] I don't really
like silence, either.
I know, it feels a little bit serious.
-It is.
-[in normal voice] Little bit grown up.
-Yeah, it's not a bit of me.
-[laughs] No, me neither.
[both laugh]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Tasha] Okay, these are going in now.
[Noel] As the first bake
of the semi-final gets underway…
Fifteen minutes,
they'll probably need a bit longer.
Fifteen minutes, might need another five
for the pistachio ones.
Oh, I ain't started the timer.
-Call it 16 minutes.
-[beeps]
…attention turns to toppings
and decorations.
Italian meringue buttercream,
the crucial bit,
it'll flavour both of my things,
so it's a big thing to do,
is being able to get them in, out, cool,
and do the decoration.
[Alison] While Prue and Paul are expecting
exquisitely presented patisserie…
They want Parisian window stuff,
don't they?
So, erm, you know,
it's gonna be finesse, bit of precision.
…it's also a chance to add
extra flavour to their financiers.
[Tasha] That's Swiss meringue buttercream.
Raspberry purée, that will go in there.
It splits, and it looks quite scary,
but secret is to just be patient.
Happy to be in the semi-final?
Yeah, I never thought
I'd be here. It's bizarre.
You only have to beat one of these people,
and you're in the final.
-I know.
-Who could you take out?
I thought you said
you was gonna turn some ovens off for me.
[laughs] Whose do you
want me to turn off? Josh?
[Matty] He's very clever.
He probably checks his oven.
-Unlike me. [laughs]
-Dan won't notice till it's too late.
[laughs] What about Tash?
Fridge and oven. She's good.
[Matty and Noel laugh]
This'd be more fun
than the actual show if we did this.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Oh, good.
It's the semi-finals, guys.
-[oven beeps]
-Let's dig deep.
[Alison] A perfectly-baked financier
has a crisp, eggshell-like exterior.
[Josh] Yeah. I'm really pleased with them.
Good. Skewer comes out nice and clean.
[Tasha] Coffee and hazelnut sponges,
I think, are done.
The pistachio ones
are in for another five minutes-ish.
[Noel] But spend too long in the oven
and they'll lose their moist centre.
[Dan] You don't wanna
overbake these batches,
because they'll be tough as old boots
as Paul likes to say.
[Matty] I'll give 'em
another minute or two.
[Tasha] Pistachio sponges
are really deceptive.
They look like they're done, but they're
sometimes stodgy in the middle.
I don't think
I've overbaked so far in practice.
There's still time, I guess.
-[Tasha] Oh, God.
-[Noel] You good?
-Multitasking.
-[whistles] Lot going on here.
Yeah, a fair bit.
I've skewered some hazelnuts.
[Noel] Are they hard to skewer?
-Surprisingly soft. Would you like to try?
-[Noel] Oh, soft. No.
-[Tasha] No.
-It's too much for me. [laughs]
Imagine if I'm good at it,
I'll have to start baking.
No one wants that.
[Tasha laughs]
Right, I think we're ready to go.
We can begin with the decoration.
[Dan] Come on.
-What's that, mango?
-Peach.
-Peach. Slipping and sliding.
-I know.
-This is like The Krypton Factor. [laughs]
-It is.
If you can put tiny slices
of slipping and sliding peach
onto these oblong sponges… [laughs]
You go onto a next stage.
[laughs]
Right, they're coming out.
[oven beeps]
That's dark enough for me.
[Matty] They look all right.
Oh, I don't know if that's baked enough.
-How long have we got?
-Okay, bakers, ten minutes left.
[Dan] This is the tonka bean mousse.
It's gonna be extremely,
extremely close, this.
[Matty] I wanna cut out
a little wedge for the ganache.
Oh, I hope that's cooked.
[Dan] I'm just gonna
get this yuzu gel on here.
[Tasha] This is
my chocolate coffee ganache.
[Matty] I've put the chocolate
in the middle and then pipe over the top.
[Noel] Has your pipework
come on since you've been in this show?
Yeah, er, probably.
I mean, I was no good at it before
and now I'm, like, not as no good.
[both laugh]
-[Josh] Not too bad.
-[Tasha] Buttercream's curdled. [sighs]
Don't have any other choice but to pipe.
Got no time.
[Josh] Chocolate over the top
to give it a nice finish.
[Dan] Put these mint leaves on.
[Tasha] Oh, it's so curdled.
I really wish I had time
to rewhip this buttercream.
Got a bit of colour on my,
er, raspberries. [exhales]
[Noel] Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your bakes.
[Matty] Mine are underbaked.
Oh, look at these little beauties.
Curdled my buttercream.
[Dan] My mousse is lumpy,
-so don't worry.
-[both chuckle]
[Noel] The bakers' financiers now face
the judgement of Prue and Paul.
-Hello, Matty.
-Hi.
-Hiya, Matty.
Straight off the bat, they look good.
Look uniform 'cause you've
used a similar pattern.
Let's start with coffee.
So, there's a chocolate ganache,
coffee liqueur
and vanilla cream with some walnuts.
I like it. Pretty strong.
I really like your flavours.
I do think it's overbaked.
-Overbaked.
-[Paul] Yeah.
It's a little bit dry and I expect
a bit of moisture there and it isn't.
-Okay.
-[Paul] Let's have a look at the…
[Matty] Mango, lime and coconut.
Your flavours are so good, Matty.
That is better.
You know what?
You didn't have to make them so thick.
You could've halved the sponge.
I think that's right. It's actually
too much cake versus topping.
[Paul] But you've got
real grown-up flavours.
-[laughs]
-[Prue] They are.
[laughs] Grown-up favours.
-[softly] Well done.
-[softly] Thank you. [chuckles]
[Prue] On first glance,
they look absolutely lovely.
Second glance, you look
as if you've dropped one or two.
Yeah, they look, er, rough.
These look beautiful.
This is a coffee and hazelnut financier,
and then the ganache
is chocolate and coffee.
[Paul] Hmm.
I think that is
absolutely delicious, Tasha.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Melts in the mouth.
The ganache
is really luxurious and decadent.
I think the flavours, they're spot on,
and more importantly, the bake is perfect.
A little bit of moisture in there
which holds on the tongue. Delicious.
-Okay.
-[Prue] Good.
This is pistachio?
Pistachio sponge with raspberry
Swiss meringue buttercream.
I love raspberry and pistachio together.
The sponge has just
that little bit of resistance.
You think it's slightly overbaked?
It has gone slightly over, unfortunately.
And it could've been much neater
on that one. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
-[mouthing] Well done.
-Thank you.
[Paul] They look good.
I think your size might be a bit tall.
Just a little bit.
This one's a Bakewell-inspired financier
with custard flavoured
Italian meringue buttercream on top.
-Did you add almond essence as well?
-Just a fraction, yeah.
A tiny bit too much.
It should be a hint,
and it's quite overwhelming.
[Prue] It tastes delicious.
And it's got that thing that I love
which is the slight chewiness.
-Nice and moist and soft in the middle.
-[Paul] Yeah.
Let's have a look at your chocolate.
[Josh] Hazelnut chocolate and orange
with a chocolate Italian meringue
buttercream on top.
Flavour is delicious. However,
the financier itself is slightly dry.
A financier should melt in the mouth.
It's great flavour.
-[Paul] Can't complain. Flavour's good.
-[Josh] Thank you.
-They do look beautiful.
-[Prue] Very neat.
You were worrying about finesse,
they look beautiful.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] They do look good.
I think we'll have a look
at the Japanese-inspired one first.
This is the tonka bean
with the pink peppercorn
-and pistachio and matcha and…
-[Prue] Everything else.
That's beautiful.
-Is… Is it?
-[Paul] Clever. Yeah.
Matcha hits right at the end.
Tonka bean's there.
The choice of fruit, I like on there.
That is delicious, all of it.
Oh, thank you. [exhales sharply]
[Paul] Let's look at the peach, orange…
-[Prue] And raspberry.
-Yeah.
[Paul] Hmm.
-That's beautiful. Really nice.
-[Dan] Oh.
It's like a celebration of citrus,
it pops and it's beautifully baked.
It's got moisture there,
that's the perfect financier for me.
[Prue] It's a triumph. Well done, Dan.
Thank you very much.
What a time to get a handshake.
That went a bit better than expected.
There's a lot of chat
about getting a handshake off Paul.
I'd like a fist pump off Prue,
but I might see
if we can get one off her tomorrow.
Dan's done amazing.
We've known that patisserie is his week.
The one that he's been looking forward to.
He's shown that straight away.
No redemption, but that's okay.
Every week,
I feel like I learn a little bit more
and every week I'm reminded
that I know nothing.
I thought they was underbaked. [laughs]
Nope, over. [laughs]
[Alison] One bake down, two to go,
and the pressure in the tent
is about to rise as the bakers face
another gingham-wrapped unknown.
[Noel] Welcome back to the tent.
Today, your technical challenge has been
set for you by the wonderful Prue.
Prue, any words of advice?
This recipe is so delicious,
you can hardly go wrong with the flavour.
So, what Paul and I are going to be
looking for is exquisite presentation.
As ever, this technical challenge
will be judged blind,
so we're gonna have to ask
these two joyous poppets…
-[chuckling]
-…to leave the tent. [laughing]
For your technical challenge,
Prue would love you to make
a tarte aux pommes.
If you didn't do GCSE French,
that is an apple tart.
Your apple tart should consist
of a short buttery pastry case
filled with a smooth almond frangipane
and apple purée
topped with glazed apple slices,
arranged in a way
that's very pleasing to the eye.
You have two and a half hours.
On your marks, get set, bake.
[Matty] Had a feeling
it'd be something like this.
I can't remember
how to do it, though. [laughs]
[Tasha] This is giving me
strong memories of Pie Week.
Blind baking went wrong in Pie Week.
Pie Week? Pastry Week.
[Dan] Really don't wanna
cock this one up like last week.
Four weeks ago, you'd finish fourth
and be like, "Get in there."
Now, you finish fourth,
it's like doomsday.
Tarte aux pommes is a great challenge
for the semi-final.
[Prue] It's my favourite dessert. [laughs]
I absolutely love it.
I mean, to get
a perfect apple tart like this,
it has to go in the oven three times.
First for the blind bake,
and that's the most important one,
otherwise, you'll get a soggy bottom.
[Paul] That's the thing
that starts to achieve the correct colour.
They then bake again a layer of frangipane
just to set it a bit,
and then they add the apple purée
and the apples to bake.
I think it's about the finesse.
The apples have to be really, really thin,
otherwise, A, they don't get baked enough,
and secondly, they look all clumsy.
Gorgeous, isn't it?
-Hmm.
-Frangipane is absolutely delicious.
-It is.
-That could easily be
because it has
three tablespoons of Calvados in it.
But I haven't told them how much to do,
so it'll be interesting
to see how cautious they are.
That's a real celebration
of apples right there.
-It's beautiful.
-Yeah.
[Tasha] "Make and blind bake
a pastry case."
Very informative.
[Dan] I'm just mixing flour
with the butter.
[Matty] There's two methods.
This one and this one.
Maybe I should do this one.
My hands are quite warm so… [chuckles]
That's a poor excuse
for being lazy, ain't it? [laughs]
You want to keep it short,
not overwork it.
That's why I do it all by hand.
[Noel] Who makes the best apple tart?
Northerners or Southerners?
-Definitely--
-French people.
[laughs]
-I've got some French in me.
-Have ya?
-I'm moody and I've got a big nose.
-I've got a big nose.
-Me and you have got some schnozzes.
-We have.
-Strong leaders. Gods.
-Strong leaders.
-Caesar, Zeus. See you later.
-Yeah. [laughs]
Turn that into a dough,
wrap it in cling film,
stick it in the freezer,
and then roll it out.
[Matty] Five to ten minutes.
[Dan] Get that gluten to chill out, man.
"Make a textured apple purée."
I'm very aware that they might cook down,
but also, I don't wanna
have to cook them forever,
and I have previous of undercooking fruit.
I don't want it to be mushy.
[Noel] Anyone in your family
got a nose as big as mine?
I play rugby, so I've seen people
with far worse noses.
-What's your worst rugby injury?
-Erm, fractured my skull.
I've got a titanium mesh
under there. Yeah.
You got a titanium skull?
When I came out of the operating theatre,
someone had written "do not press"
on my head.
[laughs] If you see a sign saying
"do not press," what are you gonna do?
-You're gonna press.
-Good thing you weren't there.
-[both laughing]
-[mimics creaking]
[Dan] Apples are softened,
liking the look of them.
Is it puréeing down? It's mushing down.
[Josh] We'll leave it at that.
Probably roll out my pastry now.
[Matty] This will definitely be important.
I wanna get it to maybe about three mil.
I'm saying that like I know
what three mil looks like.
It's about a pound thickness.
[Tasha] It's a crumbly pastry.
That's not good. Very crumbly.
You don't want cracks,
gotta be quite delicate.
[Dan] Take a bit off this,
do a bit of DIY work down here.
I'm gonna use all of these beans,
try and get them into the corners.
Doesn't tell you how long to bake it for,
it just tells you to bake it at 170.
Be good to me.
Maybe 12 minutes for a blind bake.
I don't bloody know.
[Noel] Key to the perfect tart,
the pastry case needs to bake
for 25 minutes.
Start with ten minutes,
see how it's doing. Check again.
[Noel] Anything less and the bakers risk
ending up with the dreaded soggy bottom.
Twenty minutes.
[Josh] It's a very big tart case,
so if the pastry isn't baked
when the filling goes in,
I don't think it'll ever bake.
I'm gonna get started
on my frangipaney.
Fangipaney? Frangipane, frangipane?
I have never made frangipane before.
It's cream, butter, sugar,
mix in egg and almonds.
[Dan] Beat that baby in.
Flavouring it with apple brandy. Calvados.
I'm thinking a tablespoon.
I want to get the flavour
without affecting the mixture,
because it might get runny.
I'm gonna go half a tablespoon.
Prue likes a drink, so maybe 50 mil?
Screw it, two tablespoons. Done it.
Could be good, could be bad.
[Tasha] Okay, that's ready to come out.
[Matty] I wanna give it a minute or two.
[Josh] Still not dried out yet.
[Dan] Another five minutes, I think.
[Tasha] I maybe should've gone longer,
but I don't want it
to be dried out or burn,
'cause it has to
go in again twice. [exhales]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
Halfway through your technical challenge.
Or technical chall-onge
as Paul Hollywood calls it
when he's trying to impress.
[Dan] That's a nice colour.
Not too much shrinkage on it either.
Got a crack. Oh, bloody hell.
[Alison] Any cracks in the pastry
and there's a danger the filling
could leak out and the case collapse.
-[Noel] Happy with it?
-Not really, no.
A few cracks, so I've got a funny feeling
I might be coming fourth.
-Have you ever won a technical?
-I beg your pardon? Three.
-Oops.
-[all laughing]
[Josh] I'm pleased.
It's beginning
to have colour on the bottom.
[Dan] Need to get a shimmy on,
I'm gonna slap this in.
[Tasha] "Bake the frangipane
in the pastry case."
-[Noel] Back in the oven. How long for?
-Probably until Josh takes his out.
"For the topping,
core and halve the red apples,
slice thinly into two
to three millimetre slices."
[Dan] They want it looking good.
That's the whole point of patisserie.
They're miles too thick.
[Tasha] My chopping
isn't exactly the most even.
How long's that cook for?
Does anybody know? Can anybody tell me?
[Matty] Absolutely no idea
what I'm looking for. [chuckles]
[Tasha] Maybe a bit longer.
No, I don't want them to say
it's overdone.
It's firm to the touch and spongy,
and it should be.
[Dan] It's a bit rough,
like a dog's dinner.
[Tasha] "Spread the apple purée
over the frangipane."
No idea if I'm meant
to wait for it to cool.
I'm gonna go with no.
"Working from
the outside edge of the tart,
arrange the apple slices skin side up
in a concentric overlapping circle."
I'm baffled by those instructions.
What's a concentric circle
when it's at home?
[Tasha] How do I do this?
[Dan] It's losing its way slightly.
[sighs]
Not easy.
Feel like this is more your thing
than mine, artistic.
I like these with the kink in them.
-You like a kinky apple?
-[Noel] Is that nature or you?
Kinky apples.
Shall we start a band?
I'm gonna see the Kinky Apples tonight.
Don't forget to bring silver wellies,
and some sort of hat.
-See you on the Pyramid Stage.
-[both chuckle]
Josh's looks absolutely top.
So is Matt. Yeah, yeah.
Oh, man, his is dead good.
Needs to look really pretty.
[Tasha] Oh, it's awful.
That's what I should've done.
[Matty] It doesn't look too bad.
Bakers, you only have half an hour left.
Oh, no.
-Going in.
-[oven beeps]
-All right, 25 minutes.
-[timer beeping]
That's gonna be in there
as long as we've got left.
[exhales] Right.
"Glaze the tart with apricot nappage."
Do you know what a nappage is?
No, nor do I.
It's probably napp-age.
Depends where you grew up.
[laughs]
[Josh] We could just say apricot glaze.
[Dan] It's jam sugar.
I've just chopped up the apricots.
Add a few tablespoons of water,
then I reduce.
So I think it's gonna be quite thin,
but also sticky, shiny but brushable.
[Josh] There we are, one nappage.
Bakers, you only have five minutes left.
[whispering] I don't want to take it out.
I'm just gonna give it
maybe another minute.
[sighs]
Let's whack her up.
[Josh] I'm gonna take it out.
-[oven beeps]
-It'll have to come out.
I'm just giving the old nappage a go.
Looks a bit rough, doesn't it?
It's really soggy.
[Josh] I'm happy with that.
Not so happy with having to take it out
whilst it's piping hot.
-Bakers, you only have one minute left.
-I don't know if that's baked enough.
[Josh] Oh!
Yeah, it popped straight off.
[exhales]
That was horrible.
-[clatters]
-[inhales sharply]
Oh, my God, I can't watch.
No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, my God. It's just falling apart.
[Matty] Can I help?
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
Oh, man.
Just wanna go to the pub.
Please bring your tarte aux pommes
down to the gingham tablecloth
and place them behind your photographs.
Oh, that looks amazing.
How did you do that?
[Matty] I dunno, mate.
[Noel] Prue and Paul are expecting four
beautifully decorated tarte aux pommes,
pretty enough to grace
any Parisian patisserie
with a short buttery pastry case,
a flavourful frangipane
and apple purée filling,
topped with beautifully arranged
slices of apple.
We'll start with this one, Prue?
Er, bit of a split here.
-Bit clumsy.
-It lost it…
Yeah, clumsy's a good word for this.
[Prue] Mmm, the pastry may be cracked,
but it's very nice.
And it's properly baked.
-Frangipane's not very strong.
-[Prue] Could be stronger.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] Right.
[Paul] This one's quite neat.
Very neat and the apples
are beautifully arranged.
Pastry possibly could've had
a little bit longer in the oven,
just to put a bit more
of a flash of colour.
-The pastry's crisp on the bottom.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Prue] But a bit soggy there. Right.
[Paul] Now moving on to this,
erm, disaster.
This struggled to come out of the tin.
And it looks very messy.
I think this perhaps
wasn't baked blind enough.
[Paul] There's no colour on that.
[Prue] No, it's very raw.
Mmm. The flavour's okay.
The pastry's let it down a little bit.
-[Prue] Right.
-[Paul] This is quite neat.
You've got a bit of a split there.
All the worst bit's been put that way,
I'd do exactly the same if it was me.
That melts in the mouth, that pastry.
It's delicious.
[Prue] The apples
are nicely thinly sliced.
They're nicely arranged.
Oh, it's lovely.
[Alison] Prue and Paul will now rank
the apple tarts from worst to first.
In fourth place we have this one.
Tash, big problem with the pastry.
It fell apart, and the shape
wasn't as good as I expected.
-Yeah.
-And in third place we have this one.
Dan, it looked a bit clumsy,
and the pastry had cracked a little.
But it was delicious.
In second place we have this one,
whose is this?
Matty, pretty good actually.
Very, very neat. It just needed
a little longer in the oven.
Very, very good.
Which means, Josh, this is the best one.
It was absolutely lovely.
[indistinct chatter]
First in a technical,
it's taken nine weeks,
but got one now, so I'm over the moon.
I'm really pleased.
I saw Josh's, to be fair, and I thought,
"Yeah, that's… that's good."
[Dan] Yeah, third, I'm happy with that,
because there was absolutely
nothing between 'em,
it was like splitting hairs.
Financiers couldn't have gone any better,
so I've had an ace day, just brilliant.
What a disaster. [chuckles]
Last place, so tomorrow I need to try
and not let the stress get to my head.
I could very easily go home.
[Alison] Just one challenge remains
for our bakers
to secure a place in the final.
[Noel] So, Alison's still not with us.
She's still poorly, unfortunately,
but a great start to the semi-finals.
It certainly was.
Dan got a handshake.
I think he came back yesterday,
he's been on a bit of a sabbatical.
And he's popped back
to see what's going on.
-Good time to pop back.
-Yeah, semi-final.
[Prue] The other three
are right there biting his heels.
[Paul] I mean, the technical,
we had Josh in first,
but the signature, Bakewell tart,
-it was a little artificial.
-Yeah.
-Technical, Matty came second.
-[Paul] He did.
And then the signature bake,
great flavours in both.
His sponge was a little bit dry,
and then Tash in last place.
I would never have said
Tasha could make such a mess
of such a simple thing as an apple tart.
Tasha needs to pull it back
in the showstopper.
It's very tight this week.
You can't call it at the moment,
it is down to this last challenge.
So exciting.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent,
it's time for your showstopper challenge.
Today, the judges would love you
to bake an exquisite millefoglie,
which is the Italian equivalent
of the French mille-feuille.
Now I know how to say it in Italian and
French but don't know what it is. Paul?
It's a highly decorated pastry
with buttery flaky layers.
[Noel] Amazing. You have four hours.
On your marks,
get set, bake.
Let's do it, everybody.
[Matty] So many elements
have gotta go right today.
The pastry's first and foremost.
Lamination's holding your nerve,
give yourself enough time to do
what you need to do.
[Josh] Puff pastry,
if I was doing it at home,
I'd do this over a couple of days,
I wouldn't be ramming it in to four hours.
It's gonna be a manic one.
It's actually my birthday today.
It's a memorable one for sure.
I've not had a birthday like it.
And probably never will again. [chuckles]
The showstopper challenge
in the semi-final is a millefoglie.
This traditionally
is an Italian celebration cake.
These things are highly decorated
and taste incredible.
What we want is at least
four layers of puff pastry,
real puff pastry, not rough puff
or cheat's puff, proper puff pastry.
This is all about timing.
It's about producing those
gorgeous laminations that we want inside.
[Josh] I am just rolling out my butter.
Once my dough's rested in the fridge,
I'll start doing the laminating.
The trick is to keep chilling the pastry.
Because of course all this rolling
and folding warms the pastry up.
If it gets too warm, the layers disappear.
I'm alternating all day
between the fridge and the freezer.
Fingers crossed it'll all be all right.
It's difficult.
[Paul] Nowhere to hide on this
because all the layers are there stark
and everyone can see it, so any problems,
they will show up straight away.
This has to be perfection.
-Morning, Dan.
-[Dan] Morning.
-Hello, Dan.
-Hello.
-It's Handshake Dan.
Dan, tell us about your millefoglie.
-So I am doing my take on a tiramisu.
-[Prue] Oh, lovely.
In the shape of an electric guitar.
[Noel] Why a guitar?
This is for a gig
I missed last week, Sam Fender.
I bought my tickets thinking,
"I'll never get this far."
-And here I am, so…
-[all laughing]
[Noel] Hoping to strike
a chord with the judges,
Dan's tiramisu-inspired showstopper
will contain layers of coffee
and chocolate crème diplomat,
an amaretto mousse,
topped with a bright blue mirror glaze
to recreate the guitar
of his musical hero.
The flavours sound great.
This is a showstopper in the semi-final.
-You wanna get into the final.
-Yeah.
Is this gonna be the one
that'll just push you over the edge?
I think it's the best one
I've done so far.
It's all on the pastry today,
I want it to be good.
-Good luck.
-Cheers.
-See you later.
-[Noel] Good luck.
Might get a first turn done actually.
[Alison] With their dough rested
and butter blocks chilled firm,
the bakers can begin
the lamination process,
key to producing puff pastry's
signature crisp, flaky layers.
[Matty] Put the butter block in,
completely encasing,
so it's got no avenue to escape.
[Noel] Working quickly is crucial.
[Dan] It's a stubborn old mule to roll.
[Noel] The longer they take…
[Matty] There's so much of this stuff.
[Noel] …the warmer their butter
and dough will become.
[Matty] Temperature can be
your worst enemy,
if it's too hot, the butter, it'll, like,
seep out so you don't get that puff.
If it's too cold, it will crack
and then the butter seeps out.
[Alison] While most
of the bakers have opted
for the traditional method
of encasing the butter inside the dough…
[Tasha] This is my butter packet.
[Alison] …in the pursuit
of an even flakier pastry…
[Tasha] Go in the freezer.
[Alison] …Tasha's treading
a different path.
I'm doing inverse puff pastry.
The one where the butter's on the outside?
That's right.
It's supposed to be much more difficult.
I like making my life difficult.
[Noel] Tasha's tricky puff pastry
will sandwich layers of lime
and mint mojito mousse and mango curd,
elegantly decorated
with a white chocolate cup
containing a delicate mango rose.
Wow.
[Prue] Your flavours
are always great, textures are spot on.
-It's the finishing we're worrying about.
-Me too. [chuckles]
Concentrate today
on getting that little bit of finesse.
This is Patisserie Week.
Also, you're one bake away from the final.
-No pressure.
-[whimpers, sighs]
Just doing my first envelope turn.
One third down. Then another third up.
[Dan] I'm happy with that,
that's pretty good.
I'm gonna pop that
in the freezer for a bit.
[Alison] As Dan, Josh and Matty's pastry
hits the fridge to firm up
ahead of the next turn,
Tasha's is ready
for its first inverse fold.
It's really cold.
[softly] Oh, God. It's starting to crack.
I'm so glad he saw that crack.
The butter's too hard.
So it's really hard to roll.
So I'm gonna zest my limes
and then go back to the pastry. [exhales]
[Josh] So I'm gonna make
the various fillings.
I need to get cracking on with this
so I can get it chilled in time.
[Noel] To reach the heights
of patisserie perfection
demanded by Prue and Paul,
not only must every one
of the bakers' flavours sing…
[Dan] Put the coffee in there to infuse.
[Noel] …they must
work in harmony.
[Dan] And not overpowering,
just a nice coffee flavour
to complement my amaretto mousse.
[Tasha] I'm doing mango curd,
and I'm also making a mojito curd,
so we've got lots of lime juice
and zest, mint and rum.
It's not really rummy, it's just a hint.
[Alison] While Tasha and Dan
strive to balance their boozy fillings…
[Dan] Lovely. Lovely amaretto.
[Alison] …Matty's decided to go all in.
It's three tiers, all alcohol.
Limoncello, marsala and amaretto.
The flavours are from an Italian dessert.
Zabaglione, maybe. [laughs]
[Noel] Matty's Italian tipples
will flavour three crème diplomat fillings
drizzled with lemon and plum curds
and piped between layers
of puff pastry discs
to create a three-tiered
Italian wedding cake-inspired millefoglie.
I look forward to this.
This is a play on alcohol levels,
-not getting them too much.
-Sure.
That's tricky with three.
Also, finding the right levels
for Prue and Paul.
They've got different levels.
-[all laughing]
-No.
You shouldn't worry about the booze,
it's just how it tastes.
-That's been Prue's mantra for years.
-[Noel laughs]
-Don't worry about the booze.
-One day I'll punch him.
-[laughs]
-Thank you, Matty.
-Thank you.
-[all laugh]
Er, I'm a bit behind already.
Pastry, it wants another turn.
Hopefully, this one's smoother
than the last one.
This will be fold four.
Two from being done.
This is looking good, pleased with it.
It's blended really well.
[Josh] You can see all of the layers
so I'm pleased with the pastry.
It's better than even in my practice.
I'll do a final turn
and then I'll start rolling it out.
[Tasha sighs]
Something's so wrong with this pastry.
Oh, God.
[Noel] Bakers.
Don't tell me I'm halfway through.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
Holy mackerel.
Wish I had another hour.
[Noel] As Tasha struggles
on with her pastry…
Why did I do inverse?
That was a really stupid thing to do.
…the rest of the bakers
have finished their final folds.
I'm gonna start shaping
and getting it in the oven.
[Noel] Whatever the shape
the bakers have chosen…
[Dan] I had a look at Sam's guitar online,
it's, like, a blue Fender Stratocaster,
I think it is.
[Noel] …sharp, clean cuts
are a must to ensure
their pastry's puffs up
perfectly in the oven.
I'd say you can see layers.
They might say different. [laughs]
[Noel] But while Paul and Prue will expect
beautifully risen baked sheets
of puff pastry…
Conscious with the time now,
want to make sure I can get all these in.
…when it comes to patisserie,
precision is paramount.
You don't want them to be thick,
with mille-feuille, they're thin layers,
that's why you've got the sheet on there
to weigh them down.
[Dan] Time to bake.
[oven beeps]
Oh, it's not on.
Ahhh.
[Noel] Josh's sheets
of puff pastry will contain
layers of lemon crème diplomat,
blackberry curd and blackberry jam,
decorated with homegrown berries
and piped buttercream peonies,
dedicated to the woman responsible
for him entering this year's Baking Show.
This was the celebration for a person
in mind, so I do it for my nan.
I've gone for the colours
that I associated with her.
Yellows, purples and pinks.
So far, showstoppers
have been your strong point.
I enjoy putting them together.
You've thought about it,
and you are good at showstoppers.
You've only got one problem.
That's the three other bakers
who are good.
Yeah, they're incredible.
Good luck, Josh.
-Thank you very much.
-Good luck.
[Alison] Just 90 minutes remain.
I've got two in, get these two prepared,
in the fridge, ready to go in.
[Josh] I start with about 15 minutes
and then check them every five minutes.
Least until they're golden and crisp.
[Matty] Two of the layers are in the oven.
This is plum curd which is,
it's quite nice. It was a bit tart.
Right, cut this in half.
Oh, my God.
Tash, you all right?
There's no layers in my pastry.
My puff pastry is a disaster.
No, don't say that.
I cut into it and there aren't any layers.
[Noel] Oh, no.
Which is the most important thing.
Might something miraculous
happen in the oven?
We can pray.
[Paul] Millefoglie.
This is a great challenge.
Yes, one or two things worry me a little.
I mean, Tasha. I'm worried
about her pastry
because I've never done pastry
the way she's doing it.
[Paul] Hmm.
Tasha's sound like amazing flavours,
but she struggled
a little bit with timing,
and she's got to get this one right.
She's got to finish it.
It's got to look and taste incredible.
Got to keep going.
It's the Bake Off tent. [sighs]
-Things happen.
-[Dan] Keep going.
Put everything into it.
What I like about Dan's
is that he's actually shaping the pastry.
But are you not worried about the idea
of a mirror glaze on top?
I like the idea of a mirror glaze,
but it's about the texture.
Sometimes it can be a bit rubbery.
His guitar, it's a pretty similar colour.
A bit like Josh with blackberry
and blackcurrant and lemon,
the flavours sound great. But for me,
it's about the setting on those things.
I imagine he's going to have to put a bit
of gelatine into each of his layers
because the curd won't stand up
to the weight of other layers on top.
He's got to keep the level really flat.
[Josh] Fifteen sheets of gelatine
are gonna go into here.
Which seems a lot, but then again,
I'm making a very large batch of it.
[Paul] But then you've got Matty.
[Matty] Whoa.
Matty is my biggest concern
when it comes to flavour.
He's using all the alcohols you can
think of. It's a dangerous thing to do.
Some amaretto.
You need to be cautious with quantity.
The thing about cooking with alcohol
is you should never be able to feel,
"My God, that's full of booze."
You should think it tastes wonderful.
I don't wanna eat his millefoglie
and think I can't drive now.
[laughs]
[plastic rustling]
[in deep voice] Bakers,
you have an hour left.
One hour.
[in normal voice] That was the spirit
of bread.
I am so behind.
Pastry needs to bake.
Still got mango curd to make.
This is the first time I might not
actually finish a challenge.
Everything is now in the oven. I need it
to be cool before I assemble anything.
So much going on. Sorting out my curd,
whipping that cream,
getting them out, getting more in.
[Dan] I'm making my amaretto mousse.
That's a gelatine mix gone in
with the amaretto.
Gives it a bit of body and strength
to withstand the leaning tower
of electric guitars.
This is the limoncello diplomat.
It's a bit soft,
but I'm hoping should be all right.
Looking very good. I think I might…
I might give it another couple of minutes.
Then it'll be done, but it looks nice.
Nice and golden, and puffy.
[Dan] Happy with that.
[Noel] These look nice. Happy?
Looking at the colour of Dan and Josh's
and theirs are dark.
Maybe I'll put 'em back in.
You want 'em to be crisp.
Look how dark theirs are.
What if Paul goes, "Theirs are too dark"?
You'd be kicking yourself.
What are your baker's instincts
telling you?
-Copy them.
-[both laugh]
If that's the right colour, you're gonna…
I've lost my bottle.
[Alison] As Matty's pastry
goes back in to bake,
Tasha's is finally ready for the oven.
I can do it. I can do it.
So, now what I need to do
is I need to make the mango curd.
I'm going to do that as quickly as I can.
I want to start assembling,
so I'm gonna trim these ones down.
I like to trim it down 'cause it shows off
your flakiness underneath.
[Dan] This is the mirror glaze.
See me barnet in that.
Oh, yes. Like the Brothers in Arms album.
[Dan chuckles] Yeah!
Plum curd, it's heating away now.
Need to do it at a speed
that doesn't cook the egg.
[Tasha] Hurry up, hurry up and thicken.
This is the, er, the tuile for the top
of the guitar. It's a wood effect.
Got the four sheets now. Just need
to do a bit of assembly, don't we?
[Dan] I'm gonna start building up
my bottom layer.
Amaretto mousse on here. Full layer of.
[Noel] As the rest of the bakers'
millefoglies start to take shape,
Tasha's oven…
-[Tasha] It's a miracle.
-…contains a surprise.
I see layers.
-You see layers.
-I see layers.
Told you, weird stuff happens in the oven.
-[sighs in relief]
-We don't know what's going on in there.
It's a box of heat.
So there's a lot of butter in there,
but there are layers.
-Back in the game.
-[laughs]
Bakers, you only have half an hour left.
-Oh, my days.
-[Tasha] Right, they're coming out.
Pastry's looking good.
My concern now is getting it cool.
[exhales]
[Matty] Middle layer, limoncello diplomat,
plum curd, chopped walnuts.
Amaretto mousse on here.
It's a wee bit loose.
[Matty] I'd like it to be more set,
but I'm happy that I'm at the stage
to decorate it.
[Josh] This is the blackcurrant jam.
[Tasha] Need to cool.
[Dan] This is coffee and chocolate.
It's a bit more stable.
So in hindsight,
should've put this one on the bottom.
I'm not too happy with this.
There's bit of oozing, but I have a plan.
Hide with fruit.
[Josh] I'm pleased
with how it's all coming together.
I've just got to do that last leg
and then I can quickly move on
to doing buttercream flowers on top.
[Dan] So that mousse isn't set.
Just melting.
Bakers, 15 minutes left.
Whoa.
What am I doing now? Fondant.
[Tasha] Gotta assemble that.
Let's have a lovely day relaxing, baking.
Yeah, why not?
[Tasha] This is madness.
[exhales] Oh, ya beauty. [laughs]
[Matty] Other weeks, you've been able
to get by with being a little bit sloppy.
[Tasha] Oh, it's big.
[Matty] This week, if they say it looks
messy, it's a dagger to the heart.
And it's making me nervous.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
[exhales]
[Matty] No rush.
Job done. Not doing any more to it.
Ah, it's not set.
Anybody need a hand? Need a hand?
Paper over the cracks.
My balloons aren't set, so I'm trying
to get the chocolate out of the balloons.
-[Dan] Okay.
-[Tasha] Have a go?
I like a challenge.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
A peony is the look I'm going for.
[Tasha gasps]
Oh, that'll do.
Worst rose ever, but…
I'm all done. I'm really pleased.
It's not dipping, is it?
Just get Paul in now. [chuckles]
[Tasha] Yeah, steady hands.
Steady hands. Oh.
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your bakes.
-You did it, babies.
-[exhales]
You did it.
[Dan laughs]
Well done, everybody.
Awesome.
Oh, Josh, that's incredible.
[Dan] Yours looks lovely, Matty.
[Matty] Wish that cream
would set a bit more.
[Alison] It's time to judge
the bakers' millefoglies.
Josh, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please?
Josh, it is a thing of beauty.
The lamination that you've achieved
is exceptional.
It flakes and it's flat.
It's not dipping. I like that.
-[Josh] I know, you said.
-[Paul] Let's look inside.
[Prue] Beautiful.
-[gasps] Oh.
-[Paul] Look at that.
I want to clap. It's so perfect.
-[Josh laughs]
-[Prue grunts]
[Paul] You've done
an amazing job with the pastry.
-Thank you.
-It literally crumbles in your mouth.
However, I think
you've slightly overbaked it by minutes.
Okay.
You've been really clever
about the amount of gelatine you've used,
because it could easily
have been rubbery.
Could've oozed out with the weight.
[Prue] You've done it beautifully.
And I very seldom disagree
with Mr Hollywood,
but I don't think the pastry's overbaked.
Thank you very much.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Thank you.
Well done.
Well done, Joshy.
You've had a bit of a squeeze on that.
And the reason is your chocolate
is heavier than your cream.
Flip it, and it won't happen.
As I put it on I thought
I should've put that on the bottom.
Yeah. Exceptional decoration
on there, though.
[Prue] I think it's so imaginative.
And I love the shape
-And you can see the lamination.
-[Paul] The flake's good.
[Prue] Cream is delicious.
[Paul] The flavours are fantastic.
There is a tiramisu feel to it.
The coffee is just the right level.
[Prue] I don't think
the mirror glaze works.
It looks beautiful, but it's very rubbery.
Oh, is it? Okay.
-Thank you.
-[Dan] Thanks.
-[Noel] Well done.
-Thanks.
Well done, mate.
[softly] Well done.
-[Prue] It looks like a celebration.
-Centrepiece, isn't it?
Yeah, but I think you made
a little mistake here.
-Did you use a cake tin to cut the pastry?
-[Matty] Yeah.
[Prue] The trouble is that the cake ring
will squash the pastry.
It squashes and seals.
-It'll grow. But not at the edges.
-Yeah.
[Prue] But you can see that
the pastry is laminated.
It is splitting into layers.
I don't like your puff pastry.
It's too rubbery.
[Prue] If baked through,
it would be better.
It should be flakier than that.
You've shied off from giving it colour.
-Now this one is the marsala.
-[Matty] Yeah.
-Delicious.
-[Paul] I love the flavours.
You're spot on with that.
Puff pastry, I'm not convinced about.
-[Prue] Thanks, Matty.
-Thanks.
-Well done, Matty.
-Thank you.
-Good flavour.
-[Matty] We'll see.
I like the pipework.
I like the decoration,
but it's not particularly square.
No. I had to rush at the end.
I had some problems.
You never had a chance to cut it?
No, I was trying to get them cool quickly.
So I didn't want the fillings to melt.
[Paul] Great lamination through.
It is incredible, flaking beautifully.
Let's have a look inside, shall we?
I mean, that really does
look delicious, doesn't it?
[Prue] Hmm.
-[Paul] What's this?
-[Tasha] The mango curd.
It's very grainy.
Oh, no.
It tastes lovely, but it's not quite
as silky smooth as the other two.
[Paul] You've done well
with your lamination.
And your flavours are good.
But that mango curd isn't right.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
Yeah…
Not ideal.
I'm disappointed in myself
because I know I could do better.
[exhales]
But gotta keep your chin up. So…
[Matty] The flavours, they liked.
Ah, it's just the pastry.
Not enough colour.
Erm, and the way that I cut it.
All makes perfect sense now,
doesn't it? Once you know, you know.
That could be the issue.
That could be a problem.
Yeah.
[Noel] Well, that was
an interesting showstopper.
-I enjoyed them.
-Josh's?
Epic. His flavours were really good.
The look of it was perfect.
And beautifully laminated.
So overall, in line for Star Baker.
Dan has done well too.
I loved this, 'cause it was so original.
[Paul] Slight rubbery mirror,
it's so thin.
So thin you can't even--
It was worth it for the effect
of that guitar. It was beautiful.
[Paul] So I think it is between
Josh and Dan.
I think Tasha, Matty, are in a more
-precarious position.
-I agree.
But what I like most about Matty's,
I love the flavours.
I love the way he made it look.
I had a problem with the puff pastry.
It needed longer in the oven.
Let's look a little bit closer at Tasha's.
The lamination is nice.
That flake and crumbliness.
The biggest issue was the curd.
Didn't have that
satin-y smoothness for sure.
[Paul] It's very close between 'em.
We've gotta pick the three best bakers
to go through to the final.
-Get a fork. And we'll have a go.
-Yeah.
You're going back in?
We are nothing if not devoted to duty.
[laughs]
We've got the tea. Bring on the cakes.
Bakers, well done.
That was a particularly tough week.
Patisserie's not easy.
But you all did amazingly.
There can only be one Star Baker, though,
and this week's Star Baker is…
Josh.
[applause]
[sighing] Ah, onto the hard bit.
We'd love to take you all through
to the final, but we can't do that.
So this is really heartbreaking.
The person who's leaving us is…
Tasha.
[softly] Hey, well done. Come here.
[sighs heavily] It's okay.
[Paul] Sorry, Tash. You did really well.
Really well.
Thank you.
I'm just emotional.
Just starting to say goodbye to people,
and that's when it just really hit. Er…
[exhales sharply]
[Matty] You've done amazing, Tash.
[Tasha] They're amazing people.
They really are friends for life.
That's a really special thing
about Bake Off.
It is the most supportive
and loving environment.
It's changed me, realising that I can do
so much more than I realised
that I was capable of.
[laughing]
Yeah, it's a special place.
[sniffles]
I'm very lucky to be part of it.
[Dan] Well done, come here.
[Josh] Oh, my goodness.
I can't believe that at all.
Star Baker semi-final that is,
I think, incredible.
[Paul] Welcome to the final.
The final, my nan would be so happy.
[voice breaking] She'd have
come down next week.
So, yeah, really chuffed.
-Paul, come here.
-[Paul] Welcome to the final.
Thank you very much.
Obviously, I can't get my smile
off my face kinda. So excited.
Walking out next week and all the bakers
are gonna have their families,
my family's gonna be here.
Hopefully make them proud as well really
with what I've done on the quiet. [laughs]
Hey, Matty, well done, pal.
[indistinct chatter]
[laughs]
Who'd have thought it?
My mind is doing backflips.
I don't know. I've never told anyone
that I feel like I'm a good baker.
But I definitely am growing in confidence.
I just want to give a good account
of myself.
I don't want any catastrophes,
and then people are looking like,
"How has he got here?"
So, fair few days of practice
coming up. [chuckles]
[closing theme music playing]